this year Palestinians will experience a
Ramadan like no other the Muslim month
of fasting is being observed in the face
of famine Israel is restricting what
food medicine and essential life-saving
supplies can get into Gaza the number of
people who have starved to death has
risen to 25 and instead of spending time
together with family in their homes
Palestinians who have already been
displaced multiple times are under
constant attack explosions occurred in
the southern city of Rafa shortly After
Dawn but camps and shelters have been
attacked across the entire strip more
than 31,000 Palestinians have been
killed since October jaled AER
reports Ramadan is normally a time when
Muslims come together to fast worship
and
reflect but after 5 months of
unimaginable violence people here will
instead have to endure the pain caused
by Israel's Relentless war on Gaza want
to get I came here to buy but I can't
find anything to buy there's nothing no
dates or milk or anything one can't find
anything for their children all these
canned goods are full of germs that
infect the stomach we need vegetables
and fruits to feed our children because
they've weakened and died from
Hunger more than 2 million people are
being forced to live with little to no
water or food Israel is refusing to let
enough Aid in the supplies that do exist
are unaffordable the holy month has
added meaning
here I think this Ramadan will add to
the tragedies of the Palestinian people
a new tragedy and a new torment the
situation is very difficult and any
person who says that they can endure the
pain of this month financially
spiritually mentally look over all of
this Market in vain no one can afford to
buy
anything every single person in Gaza has
lost a loved one or knows someone who
has and friends and families are torn
apart unable to celebrate
together this year's Ramadan is
different from previous years first of
all we are far away from our loved ones
our families relatives and friends in
the north everything is
different Israel's indiscriminate
attacks have destroyed or damaged at
least 184 mosques in
aaza but faith is undiminished across
the strip and Palestinians say they'll
keep praying for the war to end Julie
dger Al
jazer honey mmud joins us now on the
phone from Rafa and honey this Ramadan
was always going to be completely
different there in Gaza can can you just
give us a sense of what it is like there
this
morning a good morning Tom and happy
Ramadan for those who are observing it
everywhere and definitely this year is
completely different comparison to the
past years and the fact that
Palestinians across the Gaza Strip are
starting this Ramadan as they continue
to face food shortages and a famine that
is spreading in the northern part in
Gaza City and already causing the death
of some 25 children and two elderly and
a young woman it's just very difficult
time as given that the markets here if
we think of overcrowded Sou part of the
mainly ra city where the market is
completely almost depleted of basic
supplies or either they are at a very
high price not everyone is able to
afford to buy the basic stuff that they
need for for Ramadan but people are
still grieving and the fact that their
families are torn apart with some family
members remaining in the northern part
facing this acute famine just makes them
live uh uh this excited about the this
about this holy month or starting to to
celebrate it and everyone almost we we
talked to or we we've known so far
within the the past five months of this
genocidal War has at least lost a family
member or a relative or a loved ones or
someone that they know from their
networks just make it very difficult for
people to continue maybe the hardest
part is the fact that people use to
prepare and to start day one of Ramadan
with festivities and decoration and
lights and lanterns everywhere in the
streets and and markets and mths that
are the vast majority of them now are G
or destroyed these little details are
that what makes people uh celebrate and
feel the spirit of Ramadan do not exist
anymore and just yesterday a brief walk
in the market and just the looks on
people's uh face is just the depression
and despair is just unmatched it's so
difficult that they're starting uh this
holy month of Ramadan with this feeling
of being heartbroken basically okay
thank you so much for for all of that
honey honey mmud for us there in Rafa